Updating Espresso XCUITest docs to ref saucectl (#455)
saucelabs/sauce-docs: docs/mobile-apps/automated-testing/appium/appium-migration.md

:::

## What You'll Need

*  Your TestObject credentials (username and API key).
*  Sauce Labs account `USERNAME` and `ACCESS_KEY` [Look them up](https://app.saucelabs.com/user-settings)
*  Your preferred Sauce Labs Data Center (e.g., US-West-1, EU-Central-1).
*  An app to test

If you don't have a mobile app or test file, you can sample our [Sauce Labs sample app](https://github.com/saucelabs/sample-app-mobile/releases).

## Sauce Labs User Management

Confirm that your TestObject entitlements and platform privileges have carried over to Sauce Labs by reviewing your organization's [Team Management](https://app.saucelabs.com/team-management/users) page in the Sauce Labs app, where you can assign users to teams, bestow user privileges, and manage device/VM concurrency.

## Modifying Real Device Test Builds

Follow the steps outlined here to modify your existing test builds to utilize and reach the new unified platform.

### Step 1: Replace Credentials

 Throughout your test files, replace your TestObject credentials with your Sauce Labs credentials.

>   We recommend using [Environment Variables for Authentication](https://wiki.saucelabs.com/display/DOCS/Best+Practice%3A+Use+Environment+Variables+for+Authentication+Credentials) in order to reduce hard coding and protect your personal information from exposure.

Author: ```suggestion
  We recommend using [Environment Variables for Authentication](/basics/environment-variables) in order to reduce hard coding and protect your personal information from exposure.
```

### Step 2: Replace Remote URL Endpoint

Replace the Remote URL endpoint in your tests to access the Sauce Labs platform, for example:

|Region|Test Object URL|Sauce Labs URL|
|---|-----------|-----------|
|US|<small>`https://us1.appium.testobject.com/wd/hub`</small>|<small>`https://ondemand.us-west-1.saucelabs.com/wd/hub`</small>|
|EU|<small>`https://eu1.appium.testobject.com/wd/hub`</small>|<small>`https://ondemand.eu-central-1.saucelabs.com/wd/hub`</small>|

If you're using [Sauce Connect Proxy](/secure-connections/sauce-connect), our [REST API](/dev/api), or any other features in conjunction with real device testing, consult the documentation for that feature for applicable Sauce Labs endpoints.

### Step 3: Change Device Test Options

Not all device model and operating system combinations will carry over from the TestObject platform to Sauce Labs. You may need to adjust your device capabilities in your test configuration.

#### **Device Allocations**

> To ensure your preferred [device allocations](https://wiki.saucelabs.com/display/DOCS/Mobile+Application+Testing+Admin+Guide) will still work when you move from TestObject to Sauce Labs, view the list of available devices for your region by logging into the Sauce Labs platform and going to **Live** > **Cross-Browser** > **Mobile Real**. For a full, non-region specific list of supported devices and platforms, see [Supported Browsers and Devices](https://saucelabs.com/platform/supported-browsers-devices).

Author: ```suggestion
To ensure your preferred [device allocations](/mobile-apps/automated-testing/appium/real-devices#configuring-appium-tests-for-real-devices) will still work when you move from TestObject to Sauce Labs, view the list of available devices for your region by logging into the Sauce Labs platform and going to **Live** > **Cross-Browser** > **Mobile Real**. For a full, non-region specific list of supported devices and platforms, see [Supported Browsers and Devices](https://saucelabs.com/platform/supported-browsers-devices).
```

If you switch your Sauce Labs Data Center in the UI, you may see a different set of devices. Each Data Center stores a different set of mobile real devices.

#### **Appium Capabilities**

Validate that the Appium capabilities you've used on TestObject will still work when you move tests to Sauce Labs; see [Appium Capabilities for Real Device Testing](/basics/test-config-annotation/test-config).

### Step 4: Upload your Application to Sauce Application Storage

Any mobile apps in TestObject storage will no longer be accessible after TestObject reaches end-of-life. Please upload these to Sauce Application Storage.

*   For instructions on uploading your mobile apps (.apk or .ipa files) to Sauce Labs, see [Application Storage](/mobile-apps/app-storage).

> *   Update all app references in your test code capabilities. For example, in the `app` capability, you must use `storage:<app-id>` or `storage:filename=<some-app.apk>`, rather than `sauce-storage:<myapp.apk>` as you would in TestObject. See [Using Appium for Automated Mobile App Testing](/mobile-apps/appium) for more information.

Author: ```suggestion
*   Update all app references in your test code capabilities. For example, in the `app` capability, you must use `storage:<app-id>` or `storage:filename=<some-app.apk>`, rather than `sauce-storage:<myapp.apk>` as you would in TestObject. See [Using Appium for Automated Mobile App Testing](/mobile-apps/automated-testing/appium) for more information.
```
